Goals:
This semester I worked on getting ROS integrated with the NAO bots.

Process:
In order to achieve this I started by downloading a VM (virtual machine) onto my laptop. The purpose of this was to have the 
ability to use a different operating system on my laptop since my laptop uses windows and a linux system is more compatible 
with ROS. Once I had the VM successfully installed I moved onto getting ROS installed onto the VM and the necessary libraries 
that the NAO bot requires. I got ROS installed but ran into many issues. One of which was the fact that ROS uses many 
different distributions which are tailored for different purposes. The ones that I needed for the NAO bots became outdated 
soon after I got it installed and so I had to delete and reinstall different distributions until I found out which one worked 
best. Once I found a distribution that I thought worked I was told by my supervisor that I wouldn’t be able to download all
of the necessary libraries since some of them are outdated. That’s when my supervisor suggested that instead of using ROS we 
use the newest version of if, called: ROS2. The process for getting ROS2 installed was almost identical to getting ROS, so it 
didn’t take me much time to get it on my VM. I did have some slight problems with the distributions but it did not take me 
nearly as much time to find the right one this time. Then I started to download everything that was necessary for the NAO bots
by following the guidelines my supervisor gave me. I had run into some problems while doing so as I had run out of space more
than once since the space you have on your VM is only whatever amount you allow it when creating it. Also it is good to note 
that it is so hard to add more storage onto a VM after it's already been created so the easiest way to resolve this issue was 
to delete and restart the entire process from the beginning. This happened a couple of times before I got annoyed and just 
gave my VM 1TB of storage. After this I was able to connect to the NAO bots via SSH and I was able to turn off NAO’s autonomous 
life. But unfortunately this is where my progress stalled. I wasn’t able to launch certain packages that I had built in my 
workspace that was necessary for making the NAO bots actually move around and speak. I also was not able to figure out why I 
wasn’t able to launch certain packages. :(

Result:
I got ROS2 successfully installed and I was able to make sure that my connection to NAO was legit by having different laptops
connect to one another and talk to each other. I also got NAO to become lifeless and learned a lot about what ROS2 is and 
how it works(sorta). Ultimately I couldn’t figure out how to fix certain issues with ROS2 and thus couldn’t get NAO to walk 
around or do anything fancy. 

For the Next People:
If you want to work on ROS2 I suggest following the GitHub Repo for ROS. Since ROS2 is very new, people are working on it in
real time so you can check to see updates and if any distributions have been abandoned.
